 Operational Report 1: S4 - Flooding in the Ahr Valley
Mission number: 015/2021
Date/time: July 16, 2021 at 6:30 a.m.
Mission report:
On the second day of the flood disaster, Rech was reached by firefighters from Vettelschoß and St. Katharinen, as well as the fire chief of the VG Linz as the first disaster control unit. The passage under the railway line was impassable due to trees and branches blocking it. This meant that the fire service could only get through to the districts behind it with difficulty via the railway embankment. The first focus was therefore on supplying the residents on the side of the railway embankment facing Dernau. In addition to taking stock and pumping out cellars, IBCs (1000 l containers) were filled with water for the residents' hygiene.

After a local building contractor, later supported by the THW, had cleared the railway underpass of the mountains of branches and tree trunks, it was possible to reach the area between the railway embankment and the original course of the Ahr with vehicles. The scene that the emergency services saw was catastrophic, particularly on the "former" Ahr bridge on the opposite side. Whole rows of houses were completely destroyed and some houses had been washed away by the floods.

Fortunately, no more people had to be rescued here. Only a carrying aid for a person requiring medication was still required. It was not possible to reach the district to the right of the Ahr from here. Therefore, shortly after the initial reconnaissance, fire chief Thomas Nelles drove a huge detour to the heights on the opposite side with a firefighter from Rech who was familiar with the area and assessed the accessibility of the area via the sloping forest paths. Fortunately, the local population had already taken care of themselves as best they could and prepared a helicopter landing pad, which was later also used for rescue and supply flights.

In the video from the Rhein-Zeitung, you can see the Ahr bridge shortly before it was destroyed.

Appeal: Please do not drive into the area of operations without good reason. The few access roads and paths to the affected towns on the Ahr must be kept clear for rescue workers and those affected! Aid deliveries are organized through the Ahrweiler district. Please contact the hotline there if you want to help.

Video documentary about the operation in Rech

Reports and videos SWR television

Video Rheinzeitung (shot shortly before the massive flood - the bridge is still intact here)

Aerial photos of the situation on the Ahr (Generalanzeiger Bonn)

Link to the first day of the operation in Bad Neuenahr and Dernau 