Originaltext:
On the second day of the flood disaster, Rech was reached by emergency forces from Vettelschoß and St.Katharinen, as well as the fire chief of the Linz regional association as the first disaster control unit.

The passage under the railway line was blocked by fallen trees and branches and could not be driven through. Therefore, it was only possible to reach the districts behind the dam with difficulty via the railway embankment. For this reason, one initially focused on supplying the residents on the side facing Dernau.

In addition to taking inventory and pumping out cellars, 1000 liter barrels were filled with water for personal hygiene.

After a local building contractor and later supported by the THW had cleared the railway underpass of mountains of branches and tree trunks, it was possible to reach the area between the railway embankment and the original course of the Ahr with vehicles.

The sight that met the emergency services was catastrophic, especially at the "former" Ahr bridge to the opposite side, where entire rows of houses had been completely destroyed and some houses had been washed away by the floods.

Fortunately, no persons had to be rescued here. Only a carrying aid for a medication-dependent person was still necessary.

It was not possible to reach the district on the right bank of the Ahr from here. Therefore, fire chief Thomas Nelles drove an enormous detour with a local firefighter from Rech to the heights on the opposite side and assessed the accessibility via the steep forest paths to the operational area. Fortunately, the population there had already taken care of themselves as well as possible and prepared a helicopter landing site, which was later also used by rescue and supply flights.

In the video of the Rhein-Zeitung, you can still see the Ahr bridge shortly before its destruction.

Appeal: Please do not drive into the disaster area without a valid reason. The few access roads and paths to the affected Ahr river communities must be kept clear for emergency services and residents! Help deliveries are organized by the Ahrweiler district. If you want to help, please contact the hotline there.

Video documentation of the operation in Rech

Reports and videos SWR television

Video Rheinzeitung (recording shortly before the massive flood - the bridge is still intact here)

Aerial photographs of the situation on the Ahr (Generalanzeiger Bonn)

Link to the first day of operations in Bad Neuenahr and Dernau

In this text, the emergency forces from Vettelschoß and St.Katharinen, as well as the fire chief of the Linz regional association, reach Rech on the second day of the flood disaster. They find a catastrophic situation, with entire rows of houses destroyed and some houses washed away by the floods. Fortunately, no persons had to be rescued here. The emergency forces assess the accessibility of the area and find that it is possible to reach the district on the right bank of the Ahr with vehicles. The population has prepared a helicopter landing site, which is later used by rescue and supply flights. The text ends with an appeal not to drive into the disaster area without a valid reason and to contact the hotline for help deliveries.